Added documentation to support Topology Manager feature in Kubelet. (#15716)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/topology-manager.md

---
title: Control Topology Management Policies on a node
reviewers:
- lmdaly
- nolancon
- klueska
- ConnorDoyle
content_template: templates/task
---

{{% capture overview %}}

{{< feature-state state="alpha" >}}

An increasing number of systems leverage a combination of CPUs and hardware accelerators to support latency-critical execution and high-throughput parallel computation. These include workloads in fields such as telecommunications, scientific computing, machine learning, financial services and data analytics. Such hybrid systems comprise a high performance environment.

In order to extract the best performance, optimizations related to CPU isolation and memory and device locality are required. However, in Kubernetes, these optimizations are handled by a disjoint set of components.

_Topology Manager_ is a component in Kubelet that provides node level policies to enable these performance optimizations in an user abstract manner.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

## Topology Manager

> Currently, the CPU and Device Manager in Kubernetes make resource allocation decisions independently of each other.

Reviewer: > Currently
“Previously”? Or perhaps “If you don't already use Topology Manager in your cluster, ”?

Author: Updated, let me know what you think!

This can result in sub-optimal allocations on multiple-socketed systems, performance/latency sensitive applications
will suffer due to these sub-optimal allocations.

The Topology Manager is a new Kubelet component, that acts as a source of truth for other Kubelet components to make topology aligned resource decisions.

The Topology Manager provides an interface for components, called *Hint Providers*, to send and recieve topology information. The default *best-effort* algorithm takes

> all possible NUMA Node combinations for an incoming container and chooses the best fit (being the narrowest NUMA node with resources available). The topology manager recieves

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all possible NUMA Node combinations for an incoming container and chooses the best fit (being the narrowest NUMA node with resources available). The topology manager receives
```

> the NUMA information from the *Hint Providers* as a bitmask and preforms a bitwise and to get the combined results, it then chooses the narrowest preffered result and stores it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the NUMA information from the *Hint Providers* as a bitmask. The Topology Manager performs a bitwise and to get the combined results. Finally, the Topology Manager selects the narrowest preferred result, and stores it.
```

The *Hint Providers* then use this when making the resource allocation decisions.

### Configuration

> The Topology Manager is an alpha feature in Kubernetes v1.16 and will be disbabled by default behind a feature gate. 

Reviewer: Covered by the feature-state shortcode [above](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/15716/files#diff-43e0a44ed6b2437d8a5d7480fc2b58f0R13)
(if not, “disbabled” is a typo)

* Works on a nodes with the `static` CPU Manager Policy enabled. See [control CPU Management Policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)
* Works on Pods in the `Guaranteed` QOS Class {{< glossary_tooltip text="QoS class" term_id="qos-class" >}}. 
If these conditions are met, Topology Manager will align CPU and device requests.

> Topology Manager supports two allocation policies.You can set a policy via a Kubelet flag, `--topology-manager-policy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Topology Manager supports two allocation policies. You can set a policy via a Kubelet flag, `--topology-manager-policy`.
```

> Topology Manager has two allocation policies, that are set via a Kubelet flag `--topology-manager-policy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Topology Manager supports two allocation policies. You can select a policy via a Kubelet flag, `--topology-manager-policy`.
```

There are two supported policies:

> *`none`: the default, which means no Topology Management will take place and Kubelet will preform

Reviewer: How about dropping “which means” from this and the next line?
Eg
```suggestion
 *`none` (default): no Topology Management; Kubelet ignores any topology hints.
```
(if not, “preform” is a typo)

as previously.
*`best-effort`: which means the Topology Manager will provide the best fit allocation for the container
but will not fail the pod in the event this is not possible.

> ### None policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### None policy {#policy-none}
```

This is a thing I tend to do as a kind of defensive design thing, it's not required by the style guide.
Where a fragment identifier will be linked to a keyword, I'll explicitly assign a stable name. Then, if the heading text changes, existing links keep working.

> This is the default policy and does not preform any topology alignment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the default policy and does not perform any topology alignment.
```

This is the default policy and does not preform any topology alignment.

> ### Best-effort policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Best-effort policy {#policy-best-effort}
```

> The `best-effort` policy makes calls for each incoming container to the 

Reviewer: How about:
  For each container in a Pod, kubelet in `best-effort` mode calls each Hint
  Provider to discover resource availability. …

Author: Changed, let me know what you think

Topology Manager will store this and admit the pod to the node.

The *Hint Providers* can then use this information when making the 
resource allocation decision.

> ### User Experience

Reviewer: As this is a Task page, how about calling this section “Example”?

resource allocation decision.

### User Experience

Consider the containers in the following pod specs:

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
```

This pod runs in the `BestEffort` QoS class because no resource `requests` or
`limits` are specified.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "200Mi"
      requests:
        memory: "100Mi"
```

This pod runs in the `Burstable` QoS class because requests are less than limits.

> Neither of these pod specifications would be considered by the Topology Manager *best-effort* policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you selected a `best-effort` policy, Topology Manager would not consider either of thse Pod specifications.
```

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "200Mi"
        cpu: "2"
        example.com/device: "1"
      requests:
        memory: "200Mi"
        cpu: "2"
        example.com/device: "1"
```

This pod runs in the `Guaranteed` QoS class because `requests` are equal to `limits`.

> This pod would be considered by the Topology Manager. In this case the CPU Manager Static policy would be consulted to send back available CPUs and their Topology, as well as this the Device Manager would be consulted to provide the Topology of example.com/device.

Reviewer: I tried to rephrase this closer to project style. Here's my suggestion:
```suggestion
Topology Manager would consider this Pod. The Topology Manger consults the CPU Manager Static, which returns available CPUs and their topology. Topology Manager also consults Device Manager  to provide the Topology of `example.com/device`.
```

Author: Changed, let me know what you think

Topology Manager will use this information to store the best Topology for this container. In the case of this Pod, CPU and Device Manager will use this stored information at the resource allocation stage.

> {{% /capture %}}

Reviewer: I can also recommend some “What's next?” hyperlinks; would that be useful?

Author: Yeah that would be great, what would be good?
Also should this document be linked from the CPU and Device Plugin docs?

Reviewer: (oops, I didn't get to this)

---
title: Control Topology Management Policies on a node
reviewers:
- lmdaly
- nolancon
- klueska
- ConnorDoyle
content_template: templates/task
---

{{% capture overview %}}

{{< feature-state state="alpha" >}}

An increasing number of systems leverage a combination of CPUs and hardware accelerators to support latency-critical execution and high-throughput parallel computation. These include workloads in fields such as telecommunications, scientific computing, machine learning, financial services and data analytics. Such hybrid systems comprise a high performance environment.

In order to extract the best performance, optimizations related to CPU isolation and memory and device locality are required. However, in Kubernetes, these optimizations are handled by a disjoint set of components.

_Topology Manager_ is a component in Kubelet that provides node level policies to enable these performance optimizations in an user abstract manner.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

## Topology Manager

> Prior to the introduction of Topology Manager, the CPU and Device Manager in Kubernetes make resource allocation decisions independently of each other.

Reviewer 2: Nit/Suggestion: 
Prior to the introduction of Topology Manager, both CPU Manager and Device Manager in Kubernetes made separate resource allocation decisions independently of each other.

Author: Decided to stick with the current sentence

Reviewer: For grammar:
```suggestion
Prior to the introduction of Topology Manager, the CPU and Device Manager in Kubernetes made resource allocation decisions independently of each other.
```

> This can result in sub-optimal allocations on multiple-socketed systems, performance/latency sensitive applications

Reviewer 2: Does this need another line explaining why such allocations are "sub-optimal"? 
ie independent decisions can result in cpus/devices allocated on separate numa nodes, therefore causing bottleneck between sockets and latency as a result.

will suffer due to these sub-optimal allocations.

The Topology Manager is a new Kubelet component, that acts as a source of truth for other Kubelet components to make topology aligned resource decisions.

> The Topology Manager provides an interface for components, called *Hint Providers*, to send and recieve topology information. The default *best-effort* algorithm takes

Reviewer 2: nit: receive

> all possible NUMA Node combinations for an incoming container and chooses the best fit (being the narrowest NUMA node with resources available). The topology manager receives 

Reviewer 2: Do we need an explanation of "narrowest"?

> the NUMA information from the *Hint Providers* as a bitmask. The Topology Manager preforms a bitwise and to get the combined results. Finally, the Topology Manager selects the narrowest preffered result, and stores it.

Reviewer 2: nits: 
performs
I think "bitwise AND" is the normal convention as opposed to "bitwise and"? (open to correction)
preferred

The *Hint Providers* then use this when making the resource allocation decisions.

### Configuration

The Topology Manager currently:

> * Works on a nodes with the `static` CPU Manager Policy enabled. See [control CPU Management Policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)

Reviewer 2: Nit: Works on nodes

but will not fail the pod in the event this is not possible.

### None policy {#policy-none}

This is the default policy and does not perform any topology alignment.

### Best-effort policy {#policy-best-effort}

For each container in a Guaranteed Pod, kubelet, with `best-effort` topology 
management policy, calls each Hint Provider to discover their resource availability.
Using this information, the Topology Manager stores the 
best NUMA Node affinity for that container. If the affinity is not preferred, 
Topology Manager will store this and admit the pod to the node.

The *Hint Providers* can then use this information when making the 
resource allocation decision.

### Example Usage

Consider the containers in the following pod specs:

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
```

This pod runs in the `BestEffort` QoS class because no resource `requests` or
`limits` are specified.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "200Mi"
      requests:
        memory: "100Mi"
```

This pod runs in the `Burstable` QoS class because requests are less than limits.

> If you selected a `best-effort` policy, Topology Manager would not consider either of these Pod

Reviewer 2: Nit (to keep it 3rd person):
With "best-effort" policy enabled, Topology Manager will not consider either of these Pod specifications.

---
title: Control Topology Management Policies on a node
reviewers:
- ConnorDoyle
- klueska
- lmdaly
- nolancon

content_template: templates/task
---

{{% capture overview %}}

{{< feature-state state="alpha" >}}

An increasing number of systems leverage a combination of CPUs and hardware accelerators to support latency-critical execution and high-throughput parallel computation. These include workloads in fields such as telecommunications, scientific computing, machine learning, financial services and data analytics. Such hybrid systems comprise a high performance environment.

In order to extract the best performance, optimizations related to CPU isolation and memory and device locality are required. However, in Kubernetes, these optimizations are handled by a disjoint set of components.

> _Topology Manager_ is a component in Kubelet that provides node level policies to enable these performance optimizations in an user abstract manner.

Reviewer 3: There's something weird about the wording here. Also s/an/a in `in an user abstract manner` if that part stays.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

> ## Topology Manager

Reviewer: I recommend move this explanation into the prerequistes section, with a heading something like
```markdown
### How Topology Manager works
```

Author: I was assuming prerequisites were information that one needed to know before looking into Topology Manager and then this doc explained the feature itself.
Agree with the name change though

Prior to the introduction of Topology Manager, the CPU and Device Manager in Kubernetes make resource allocation decisions independently of each other.
This can result in sub-optimal allocations on multiple-socketed systems, performance/latency sensitive applications will suffer due to these sub-optimal allocations. 

> * Sub-optimal in this case meaning for example, CPUs and devices being allocated from different NUMA Nodes those incurring additional latency.

Reviewer: This has a Markdown problem and I'm also suggesting a wording tweak:

```suggestion
Sub-optimal in this case meaning for example, CPUs and devices being allocated from different NUMA nodes. Allocations across different NUMA nodes add latency; an optimal placement minimizes this.
```

> The Topology Manager is a new Kubelet component, that acts as a source of truth for other Kubelet components to make topology aligned resource decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Topology Manager is part of the Kubelet that acts as a source of truth so that other Kubelet components can make topology-aware resource allocation choices.
```
(thinking along the lines of [avoid statements about the future](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#avoid-statements-about-the-future))

The Topology Manager provides an interface for components, called *Hint Providers*, to send and receive topology information. The default *best-effort* algorithm takes

> all possible NUMA Node combinations for an incoming container and chooses the best fit (being the narrowest NUMA node with resources available). 

Reviewer: “Node” means something specific in Kubernetes
```suggestion
all possible NUMA node combinations for an incoming container and chooses the best fit (being the narrowest NUMA node with resources available). 
```

(and also elsewhere in the page)

The Topology manager receives Topology information from the *Hint Providers* as a bitmask denoting NUMA Nodes available and a preferred allocation indication. The Topology Manager polices preform a set of operations on the hints provided and converge on the hint determined by the policy to give the optimal result, if a non-optimal hint is stored the preferred field for the hint will be set to false. In the current policies optimum is the narrowest preferred mask.
The selected hint is stored as part of the Topology Manager. Depending on the policy configured the pod can be accepted or rejected from the node based on the selected hint.
The hint is then stored in the Topology Manager for use by the *Hint Providers* when making the resource allocation decisions.

> ### Configuration

Reviewer: As this is a Task page, I suggest:
```suggestion
### Choose a topology allocation policy
```

The Topology Manager currently:

> * Works on nodes with the `static` CPU Manager Policy enabled. See [control CPU Management Policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Works on Nodes with the `static` CPU Manager Policy enabled. See [control CPU Management Policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/)
```

> * Works on Pods in the `Guaranteed` QOS Class {{< glossary_tooltip text="QoS class" term_id="qos-class" >}}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Works on Pods in the `Guaranteed` {{< glossary_tooltip text="QoS class" term_id="qos-class" >}}.
```

If these conditions are met, Topology Manager will align CPU and device requests.

Topology Manager supports two allocation policies. You can set a policy via a Kubelet flag, `--topology-manager-policy`.

> There are three supported policies:

Reviewer: four?

* `none` (default)
* `best-effort`
* `restricted`
* `single-numa-node`

### none policy {#policy-none}

This is the default policy and does not perform any topology alignment.

### best-effort policy {#policy-best-effort}

For each container in a Guaranteed Pod, kubelet, with `best-effort` topology 
management policy, calls each Hint Provider to discover their resource availability.
Using this information, the Topology Manager stores the 
optimal NUMA Node affinity for that container. If the affinity is not preferred, 

> Topology Manager will store this and admit the pod to the node.

Reviewer 3: Maybe say `admit to the pod "anyway"`.

The *Hint Providers* can then use this information when making the 
resource allocation decision.

### restricted policy {#policy-restricted}

For each container in a Guaranteed Pod, kubelet, with `restricted` topology 
management policy, calls each Hint Provider to discover their resource availability.
Using this information, the Topology Manager stores the 
optimal NUMA Node affinity for that container. If the affinity is not preferred, 

> Topology Manager will reject this pod from the node. This will result in a pod in the `Pending` state.

Reviewer 3: Not in `Pending` state as mentioned in KEP review.

The *Hint Providers* can then use this information when making the 
resource allocation decision.

### single-numa-node policy {#policy-single-numa-node}

For each container in a Guaranteed Pod, kubelet, with `single-numa-node` topology 
management policy, calls each Hint Provider to discover their resource availability.
Using this information, the Topology Manager determines if a single NUMA Node affinity is possible.
If it is Topology Manager will store this and the *Hint Providers* can then use this information when making the 
resource allocation decision.

> If, however, this is not possible the Topology Manager will reject the pod from the node. This will result in a pod in the `Pending` state.

Reviewer 3: Not in Pending state as mentioned in KEP review.

> ### Example Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run a Pod with a topology policy
```

Reviewer: Maybe it would be more useful to readers to run a single-Pod Deployment?

Consider the containers in the following pod specs:

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
```

This pod runs in the `BestEffort` QoS class because no resource `requests` or
`limits` are specified.

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "200Mi"

>       requests:

Reviewer 3: You can remove the requests if you want to simplify this. If just limits is set, it assumes `requests == limits`.

        memory: "100Mi"
```

This pod runs in the `Burstable` QoS class because requests are less than limits.

If the selected policy is anything other than `none` , Topology Manager would not consider either of these Pod
specifications. 

```yaml
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx
    image: nginx
    resources:
      limits:
        memory: "200Mi"
        cpu: "2"
        example.com/device: "1"
      requests:
        memory: "200Mi"
        cpu: "2"
        example.com/device: "1"
```

This pod runs in the `Guaranteed` QoS class because `requests` are equal to `limits`.

> Topology Manager would consider this Pod. The Topology Manager consults the CPU Manager `Static` policy, which returns the topology of available CPUs. 

Reviewer 3: `Static` should be lower case here
